boris johnson the prime minister in the
uk everyone's going to be looking at him
so he's going to be going around you
know
shaking hands of kids at school planting
a few trees making these announcements
all this
that's when you want to go
and expose his gross obscene hypocrisy
right
because he's weak in 2022 he's not going
to care about the climate christ he's
moved on right
so that's the moment to strike
okay
and like on that
diagram i showed then there's the 9 11.
then there's the 9 11. then there's the
9 11. then there's these massive crises
you have to act fast
you know if hundreds of people have died
in
germany because of the floods
you need that small group to go right
we're going to have this big
demonstration now in 24 hours you're
going to make that fast decision that's
why you need a small group is to react
to these spontaneous moments when the
opposition is weak
or to design something
when
you are going to maximize the
probability in other words strategic
intelligence we're not going next year
we're going now right
we're going when they're weak on our
we're we're determining the moment of
resistance
number three is high level
disruptive action
okay
so again this is like totally
foundational
you're not going to be in the ballpark
of catching that ball going down the
road
down the hill
unless you engage in high level
disruptive action
that's an absolute no-brainer at this
point in history we've got three years
to turn around the crisis
in the six-month plan
we have to go in there with something
massively transgressive massively
disruptive massively outrageous
if you're not doing that you're not in
the ballpark
because you've got to capture mass
attention to change history
to change how the society is going to
work this is the complete opposite of
performative protest
right it's about material disruption
it's about material disruption
if we're going to challenge the absolute
obscenity of the plan to destroy the
next generation we have to go in with
something that's outrageously disruptive
to say to the general public to say to
the government
this is outrageous and we're not
standing for it and we're doing whatever
it non-violently takes to push that
into your face
that's how history changes so it means
blocking motorways or blocking ports
right blocking the center of cities it
means unlimited hunger strikes it's
classical non-violence
right people get hurt sometimes people
get killed
people get hurt sometimes people get
killed
an ideology
can never be discredited
you can disillusion particular believers
but the belief
remains
like a disembodied ghost
the belief in marxist economics it still
circles the globe
it doesn't matter how many millions of
people have been killed it doesn't
matter how many true believers later
lost their faith and wrote
autobiographies reflecting on it it
doesn't matter in how many classrooms in
front of how many chalkboards people can
prove theoretically that marxist
economics can't be made to work and it
doesn't matter how many people just
sincerely and sadly say that they tried
their best to take these ideas and
implement them but the outcomes were
horrible and disastrous
believers
lose their beliefs believers grow old
and die and yet their beliefs
never
disappear
they continue
to haunt humanity and find
new souls who are so foolish
or so
mean spirited
as to believe in them
non-violence is yet another ideology and
i know how hard it is to get you to
question it i mean communism has the
same fundamental advantage going for it
it has a catchy name
it sounds so positive it sounds so
appealing don't we all want to believe
in community or don't we all want to
live in a commune you know
we could call it the togetherness
ideology oh it sounds so positive it
sounds so uplifting non-violence
what could be wrong
with that roger hallam
the leader of extinction rebellion he's
a very instructive example of exactly
what's wrong with non-violence right now
in the 21st century i don't have to go
back a long way here
i don't have to reach back to the
examples of the vietnam war or whatever
the year 2020
was it such a long time ago
can't you remember the protests that
destroyed one city after another from
coast to coast in the united states of
america demanding justice demanding
legal reforms demanding something
fundamental change in the system of
policing and the courts something
fundamental has to be changed in the
constitution
of the united states of america
were those protests non-violent
were they
and were they successful
if we can't look back at the non-violent
protests
of 2020
and both admit to ourselves
that they were a failure
and honestly examine
why
then we can never move out from under
the shadow
of this ideology
that strangely still
hovers above us all
this belief in
non-violent
protest now
roger hallam
is partly
the leader
of a real political movement
but he's partly a youtuber just like
myself
he's someone who sits down in front of a
camera and it's one of his most powerful
one of his most effective ways of
communicating with people
organizing emoting people is doing
exactly the same thing i'm doing
with you now in one important respect
it really reminds me of the youtubers
i've seen
who are trying to make money and trying
to build up a big fan following
by teaching you the secrets
to learning a new language
learning french
is hard learning german
is hard oh but it doesn't have to be
trust me believe in me sign up now i've
got the secret i've got the methodology
i've got the technique i've got this one
trick that can make it so much easier
for you to learn a language have you
ever tried to learn chinese japanese
even for a day or two
have you ever felt
desperate to have a charismatic
self-confident person speak to you
through the screen
standing there
as a sage on a stage telling you that
they know the secret they know what
you're doing wrong
and then to engage in one discussion of
methodology after another the real point
of which is just to establish their own
unimpeachable
authority
as a leader
as someone deserving
your donations
your respect
ultimately
your obedience
[Laughter]
i mean language learning
it's what goes on between a grandmother
and a grandchild
it's something caring and informal and
repetitious you know it's something you
kind of can't buy
at any price
when it's done right if you could adopt
a new grandmother you could learn any
language in the world and if you had the
patience to live with her and wash
dishes with her and she had the patience
to keep correcting you while speaking
with you in chinese or while speaking
with you in french while you wash the
dishes together right
but what you're going to see on youtube
fundamentally
because people are trying to earn your
devotion
and earn your donations
is instead an approach that presents you
with one
more sophisticated methodology after
another
there's always something new to say
about method
method method
and the reality is
there is no method in the world
good enough
that it can make learning chinese easy
and there is no method so bad
so ineffective that you can't learn the
language despite it
just with enough
hard work effort practice repetition
that grandmother who moves in with you
and washes dishes with you every day
even if she is a stuttering alcoholic
you can win language
trust me
there's a very strange parallel between
the vegan activist group direct action
everywhere
and
extinction rebellion
both of them came onto the world stage
promising that they had a method that
would work
as never before that it was something
fundamentally new and different from
what any other protest movement had
attempted before because their method
was based on social science research
other political leaders would supposedly
just appeal to your emotions your
sentiments your biases but here was
someone claiming that they knew how to
change the world they knew how to
achieve political progress on the basis
of certain scientific facts
donate now as with so many language
learning gurus as with so many exercise
gurus weight loss gurus bodybuilding
gurus
the strange thing is
that as soon as you open up the box
containing this special methodology
it seems like there's really nothing
inside
it seems that extinction rebellion
didn't have any special technique that
hadn't already been used for example by
people for the ethical treatment of
animals oh oh oh
people lying down on the sidewalk with
chains around their wrists having
chained themselves to a fence then
forcing the police to take the time to
cut through the chains or cut through
the fence and extract them and carry
them off in an ambulance oh
uh uh this this is familiar and what
what did you say about social sciences
and how were you so sure this was gonna
work oh um
women who've taken their clothes off and
are standing
across a bridge
blocking traffic
nude topless women with slogans written
on their skin this is this is the new
and different methodology that's going
to change the world as as never before
this didn't even seem new
in the 1980s
so what is this ideology of non-violence
that on the one hand they claim is
completely new and different and can
change the world as never before and on
the other hand simultaneously they claim
hasn't changed since mohandas gandhi in
india and that has been proven to work
as a consistent pattern again and again
throughout history and then let me ask
you less facetiously in the audience at
what point can we frankly say that this
has been discredited and is proven in
the same way as marx's economics at what
point can we move on to try something
really new really innovative really
challenging i spoke to roger hallem just
once from the audience at a public event
and when i stood up in the q a session i
pointed out to him that in a really
interesting way his lecture was
reproducing the defects of the approach
already taken by direct action
everywhere direct action everywhere said
just look at the great success of
non-violent protests in the arab spring
and then here we were so many years
later and i was able to say the arab
spring protests were not non-violent
they were not successful and on the
contrary when you look at them now in
retrospect at every stage of the
development
they were a disaster that's ended up
with a huge body count and no
appreciable progress towards democracy
now here we are roger and he was indeed
repackaging this same so-called social
science research pointing to this as a
success as a victory that proves the
efficacy of non-violence instead of
looking at this same historical example
as proof that what these people call
non-violence is in fact incredibly
violent and doesn't actually achieve any
of its intended outcomes and now here
you are roger so many years later and
you've added to this litany of supposed
success stories
the pro-democracy protests in hong kong
and i asked them look really
really
where do you think those protests are
going to go from here do you think just
a few months from now or a few years
from now we're going to be talking about
an independent democratic hong kong or
do you think there's a chance that the
example of hong kong like so many others
is going to end in failure
it's been a day of glaring absences
people traffic police even demonstrators
they've melted away leaving a landscape
of destruction
[Music]
we found him staring in disbelief at the
trash metro station where someone had
gone the extra mile to prevent access
people wandering around me are just as
bemused as i am remember this is one of
the main streets to the center of hong
kong right next to the university
on a friday afternoon in russia
and it's
basically a battlefield
[Music]
his reply was very down to earth and
affable and he said like yeah well when
you look at it it's like you know 51 49
or 60 40. really the odds aren't that
good for any particular non-violent
protest movement but you know we kind of
you know look at these anecdotes from
history and we kind of go with what
works
um
i appreciate his candor
what i don't appreciate is that he is
now quite literally recruiting people to
engage in terrorism and to organize
themselves in terror cells and to carry
out quote-unquote non-violent
disruptions
that are only non-violent
but the same definition that he applies
ludicrously but consistently to
tremendously violent episodes in our
history like the pro-democracy protest
in hong kong like the 2020 george floyd
riots
and like the arab spring
[Music]
some are still busy building walls
across the middle of a four-lane highway
while others are not at all sure what to
do next the umbrellas are harmless
enough less so the rocks and molotov
and in case the protesters suffered
existential angst philosophy is at hand
in french
translation i rebel therefore i am
[Music]
more than 20 000 desperate angry people
watched that video from roger hallam
not all of them read aristotle
not all of them read thucydides there
are some really stupid really malevolent
people in that audience and they are
going to interpret the vague incitement
to disruptive action that he's offering
each in their own peculiar way we can't
really pretend that roger hallam will be
blameless or will have no blood in his
hands when one of his followers one of
his minions takes his words to mean what
they so clearly do mean we live in a
world where paradoxically non-violence
is nothing more than an ideology
preaching violence and promising you
outcomes as a certainty
whereas the lessons of history show
that it has failed again
and again
but the ultimate lesson of history is no
matter how badly or how profoundly or
how repeatedly an ideology is debunked
it will never disappear
particular believers become
disillusioned but
sadly the belief
remains
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice